in terms of the benefits of the vegan
diet keeping all the way real with you
Sam I think the main way people on the
internet misrepresent the vegan diet is
that if you're talking about the the
peaks and valleys in life talking about
life as you know sometimes you're happy
and doing well so miserably
most people try to promote veganism in
terms of the peak experience in terms of
how great it is when you're at the top
of that peak something just mean and the
times when I really value the benefits
the vegan diet it's the exact up it's
when you're at when you're at
rock-bottom which it your worst but I
think several times babe even what we've
been together so you started my
girlfriend off cameras babe I'm not
addressing my YouTube audiences babe but
I mean I've been really sick several
times since we've been together and
we're I'm sick and because I'm sick I'm
not sleeping properly I'm not exercising
properly I'm not eating properly and
then you know look I drag myself out of
bed and have a shower and look in the
mirror and I'm like oh I'm actually
still in good shape the times that I've
really valued the vegan diet is when I'm
in a terrible situation psychologically
also you know going through a really
really tough patch in your life and you
realize like I'm aware because I
remember what it was like to be a meteor
I'm aware how much worse off I'd be if I
were on a standard American diet about
reading meat and cheese and that kind of
thing going to sleep hungry waking up on
great feeling cold you did all that
stuff loving a full time job right or
will be yeah yeah yeah and finding a
diet and workout routine that fits into
your your daily life yeah but look and
just bring it back to being at the
subway station and not buying that
doughnut of ethically ecologically and
politically I totally feel motivated
enough to never eat another doughnut you
know what I mean that kind of
spontaneous way because of veganism what
veganism is what it means to me but I
mean you have to decide are you
motivated enough to do that in order to
lose weight probably not that's probably
why you're over 300 pounds now
right so if you don't have the
motivation to do the right thing in
order to be slim healthy and attractive
the opposite sex
he doesn't we've established that with
tea
Oh Sam that's a known fact maybe he can
try being motivated by some of these
other factors even if it's just as a
thought experiment maybe you can just
try living try living as if ethics
matters try living as if ecology matters
you know try living as if these things
matter even if you don't feel it matters
and maybe just as a thought experiment
that's gonna motivate you to get some of
the weight loss results that you can't
get by thinking about being slim being
healthy being more attractive the
opposite sex
baddest yen so it entered my mind to
make a video of pragmatically under the
video talking about diet and weight loss
after watching some footage from Takeo
Sam so Tiki Oh Sam's guy who's well over
300 pounds and trying to lose weight and
he's not vegan and one of things that's
interesting to me of reflecting on this
I realized that almost nothing I have to
say in this video is Pro vegan or
positive link to veganism in anyway last
night when I was chatting about this
with my girlfriend my girlfriend is here
but just off camera
most of what I had to say was really
just aunty vegan in the sense that I
mean I've lost patience with the
dishonesty of a lot of the respect of
all vegan doctors that are out there for
example and especially got like John
McDougall I feel like about 20% of what
mcdougal says is and the
province of our times and it really
discredits the other 80% of course 80%
of what he has to say is true and
important and worthwhile but the problem
is not just that the minority of things
that are not credible discredit the the
remainder it's also that a lot of what
he says really is misleading and harmful
to certain types of people certain types
people who don't know to take it with a
with a grain of salt so I mean there are
vegans who tell you in all due
seriousness that they really sincerely
that you can never get fat from eating
carbohydrates that you can eat an
unlimited quantity of bagels and never
gain weight and this is just not true
they're a bit it's even more common to
see on youtube now vegans who claim you
can eat unlimited quantities of fruit
and never gain weight fruit you know so
simple sugars not even complex don't
write earth and a large part of the
background of this are respectable vegan
doctors who you know basically make an
argument from volume they talk about
just the amount of area in your stomach
in your digestive tract and the eating
low density foods foods with low caloric
density is therefore more filling so
that a food like lettuce is much more
filling than a food like beef Oh
and they'll employ some really dishonest
tactics to to press this home and it's
especially amusing to me that there's
this hard core of respectable vegan
doctors who are completely against
eating processed food and completely
against any eating any food with with
oils in it and they argue passionately
that fats are not satiating that people
don't feel full form eating fat so the
say my girlfriend spontaneous the other
day we don't eat a lot of donuts but in
China they have a traditional kind of
Chinese doughnut so it's different from
a Western doughnut but fundamentally
it's like a piece of bread that's been
fried in oil so it mean it is
fundamentally the same thing as a
doughnut but it's a Chinese tradition of
that and I said to Melissa if this were
true then you know eating this doughnut
would be just as filling to you as you
know eating a slice of bread the same
size you know that you would
subjectively feel just is full and you
don't of course you know having fat in
your diet is satiating having fat and
protein in your diet is a shame when
people eat you know most meat products
most the popular meat products the
reason why they feel satisfied they feel
full is that meat contains a ton of
protein it contains a ton of fat it
normally contains a ton of salt and it's
also not easy to digest so your your
sense of being full is indeed partly
your body struggling with difficult some
of those calorie dense foods are to
digest and psychologically we grow up in
a sense even dependent on that you know
that's what we get used to if we grow up
eating meat the impact of eating you
know steak or hamburgers and you know
accompanied by things like french fries
french fries also again you know cooked
in oil that's what you come to rely on
to feel full and then if you switch to a
vegan diet or if you even even if it's
not vegan you switch to what I've seen
takeo Sam tryin to do he cures him he
made one video where what he was doing
on camera he was doing everything right
I mean so he had he had given up doing
soda pop and was instead having ice
water with
yeah lemon and cucumber putting slicing
up cucumber putting in ice water and he
switched from solid food to eating huge
salad he had a huge bowl of salad so
trying to fill up on greens well you
know psychologically I mean it like the
exact opposite of the ton of default
being an advice is true for most people
most people find steak really filling
they find cheesecake really filling and
this is one reason why psychologically a
lot of people feel you know high fat low
carb diets work not that it works
scientifically but just psychologically
they feel very full when they eat those
those those meals and then they can
achieve a low-calorie diet they get can
achieve a calorie deficit by eating very
dense food dense and difficult to digest
food it's also food that's incredibly
unhealthy but we're not even talking
about about health yet and most people
who sit need a huge salad you know one
hour later you feel hunger again so
we've had that experience we've been
eating a lot of salad since we came to
Thailand on this trip back in China just
a few weeks ago we basically never ate
salad we had a lot of greens but cooked
greens weighed a lot of broccoli a lot
of bok choy a lot of steamed and boiled
green vegetables in China but we were
not eating raw vegetables so here we
kind of been binging on salad but Wow
just you know by the time we walk home
from the restaurant we can be hungry
again after eating a huge quantity of of
salad so this is a fundamentally
insincere thing and I'm not just talking
about like informal vegan youtubers or
fitness gurus or people selling ebooks
of no qualifications like the most
respected vegan doctors really try to
drive home this argument that one what
matters is having low caloric density
foods so like lettuce would be the
ultimate example of this and then you
know - oh right the other crux of this
is claiming protein doesn't matter what
the hell is up with it I think they only
do that because of their opposition of
processed foods look if you're vegan and
you want to get protein then you're
looking at stuff like veggie burgers and
hummus and being you know processed
beans stuff you know these people some
of them are even against drinking stuff
like soy milk because soy milk is a
process
you know probably they want you to eat
hold so like e whole whole grains and
whole foods only whole vegetables so he
goes so there's this kind of hostility
to the protein argument which is again
totally insincere telling you oh it's no
problem to get plenty of protein on a
vegan diet yeah right you know come on
let's let's keep it all the way real
here yeah and and then of course the
huge huge hostility to anything
containing fat except avocados right
like what they're soft on like avocados
nuts and seeds if you're trying to lose
weight you should never eat ever kind of
snots and seeds that's terrible advice
like encouraging you to advocate assess
things but then anything that has oil
anything that's processed and a lot of
the processed foods isn't Venus how
you're gonna get a more of a dense high
protein meal out of a vegan diet
something that works with the reality of
having a nine-to-five job so that
probably works the reality of getting
exercise you know if you can and when
you can so a lot of the advice that's
out there I find is really bad advice
now one of Tiki Oh Sam's videos on this
also um you know he had advice from
Canada jin-san who is a very skinny
small young woman I don't know how tall
she is but she looks she looks very very
small well dimensions
I remember just struck me how her advice
for him losing weight seemed to me
really in applicable for a very big dude
so I think he's about 5 foot 10 and now
I think he's like well over 300 pounds
320 or 300 50 pounds or something and
it's interesting too because a lot of
things he says I think he kind of
already knows what he needs to do he
just isn't doing it he talked a lot
about walking as exercise if you're a
big heavy dude walking especially
carrying weight when you're walking like
carry a backpack full of books walking
up and down stairs then you're getting a
ton of exercise every step you're moving
like 300 pounds right now the other side
of that though is this is the tragedy of
you know severe obesity or being
extremely overweight I also heard him in
a video a different video that was very
very honest you shutout them for being
so honest
I heard him admitting
that now when he goes to the subway
station when he goes to the train
station like he plans his route to
basically be like as a few foot steps as
possible
he has to plan how he moves to the train
station or subway station where he
stands and waits where you know how to
get a seat in Japan you know the
transport is infamous for being very
crowded you know not being able to get a
seat
so he's you know really you know
planning every footstep so that's the
problem the heavier you are the more
effective well just walking can be and
can energize everything else going on in
your workout in weight loss routine but
then also the heavier you are the harder
it is to walk and the more you're
actually even risking you know injury to
your knee and ankle and that kind of
thing and he reported that also eat a
video mentioning he went dancing and he
somehow badly injured his knee you know
I don't know the details that's rough so
the other thing he was doing right in
the same video where he was eating salad
he already had a weight bench in the
background he already knows how to do
you know bench press and other other
standard standard exercises and but then
the other thing that's funny the riddles
of that story is that he's got tattoos
so he's repeatedly tried to join gyms in
Japan but then as soon as he joins a gym
they'll kick him out for having tattoos
so I mean the struggle is real my heart
you know really goes out to him that's a
really really tough fix to be in in
terms of weight loss and exercise and
obviously apart from YouTube the guy
does have a straight job he does you
know he does teach and teaching keeps
you on your feet he teaches mostly
children not adults so we'll be running
around off the kids standing up in class
and teaching and what-have-you maybe
that's also why yes to count is his
footsteps as carefully as he does so you
know um in terms of the benefits of the
vegan diet keeping all the way real with
you Sam I think the main way people on
the internet misrepresent the vegan diet
is that if you're talking about the the
peaks and valleys in life talking about
life as you know sometimes you're happy
and doing well so doing miserably
most people try to promote veganism in
terms of the peak experience in terms of
how great it is when you're at the top
of that peak something I mean
and the time is when I really value the
benefits of the vegan diet it's the
exact up it's when you're at when you're
at rock-bottom when your worst
I just came through a bunch of illnesses
including shingles I had my first
shingles outbreak like 90% of humanity
gets shingles by the way sooner or later
in life I had a series of serious
illnesses but I think several times babe
even while we've been together so I
started my girlfriend off cameras babe
I'm not addressing my YouTube audiences
babe but I mean I've been really sick
several times since we've been together
and we're I'm sick and because I'm sick
I'm not sleeping properly I'm not
exercising properly I'm not eating
properly and then you know like I drag
myself out of bed and have a shower and
look in the mirror and I'm like oh I'm
actually still in good shape and I'm
really surprised like that's really not
what I'm expecting to see because I feel
like garbage that's really you know for
me my experience the times that I've
really valued the vegan diet is when I'm
in a terrible situation and
psychologically also you know going
through a really really tough patch in
your life and you realize like I'm aware
because I remember what it was like to
be a meteor I'm aware how much worse off
I'd be if I were on a standard American
diet if I were eating meat and cheese
and that kind of thing so babe I mean
veganism as such do you actually feel
that it makes the calorie counting any
better like in terms of you know the
core element of weight loss here we all
know yes exercise helps but it's
creating a calorie deficit okay yeah
well I see yeah
right I agree right
if you're keeping track of every little
like you know having a lot of yep yep
yep
I mean I'm honest was I have an earlier
video called feeling like crap on of
eating a diet
I think feeling like garbage and a few
diet but like you know for real be kind
a vegan diet and being in a calorie
deficit which is what I was in in
Kunming when I was in coming China I
went down from like 220 pounds to 190
pounds or some of that you know I forget
but I went from over 200 pounds to under
200 pounds and sorry no I forget but I
lost 10 or 15 kilograms and it was
gaining muscle mass at the same time so
I was going to the gym like three times
a day sometimes two times day but two
and three times a day
I was hungry all the time I felt cold
all the time like I was I was pretty
miserable and like that's not surprising
being on a calorie deficit if he can
diet
I was desperate for any kind of food
source I could get I was eating broccoli
you've seen video of what I was eating
but I'm not gonna claim that's that's
easy you know what I mean yep you went
to bed hungry and you wake up right in
conveyance it's cold there's no there's
no eating that's the difference there's
no no central heating but yeah yeah but
yeah I mean it's funny that's the most
obvious thing when you think about it is
that nobody talks about the reality of
what it's like being on a calorie
deficit kind of period and then what why
would that be any easier on a vegan diet
or let alone on a low-fat vegan diet my
vegan diet is low fat all the time and
when I gain weight I'm gaining weight
off of carbs you know and vegetables and
you see what I you know I'm not I'm not
gaining weight on chocolate bars when I
gain weight not at all I do get my soy
milk is the probably the single greatest
source of fat in my diet
and if I want to lose weight now I can
pretty much just eliminate so I'm oh but
you've seen that too when I eliminate
synote for my diet to lose weight that
I'm really hungry and looking for
whatever I can possibly get because as a
vegan there were just so goddamn few
options around for what you can eat
right yeah so Mis struggle is real but I
mean in terms of the illusion sold by
veganism for me part of it is just this
illusion that you're gonna feel fabulous
when you're at the peak I mean in life
you feel fabulous for different reasons
you feel fabulous because you have a
great sex life you feel good fabulous
because you have a great girlfriend or
boyfriend you feel fabulous because you
know something pauses up there are
reasons to feel feel fabulous but I
think veganism is nothing to do that and
it does if you don't move doesn't raise
the the peak experience but when you're
down in the the troughs or valleys when
you're when you're struggling in a
really difficult situation when you're
bouncing back from an injury or illness
or what-have-you
that's when I really had no notice the
advantage of the vegan diet and you know
something Maude vegan talked about it's
definitely true with vegan so I was just
complaining about being hungry and
having no options but I guess it's also
true in terms of your diet you don't
have a lot of temptation but once you
commit to veganism right like once
you're vegan you don't have the option
of eating donuts at this at the subway
entry you know I mean like at the subway
station of the train station tqc I
mentioned going to Cinnabon you'll never
eat Cinnabon
so it does force you a bit more
disciplined and plan I mean you can
still eat stuff like potato chips but
you'll probably buy those potato chips
in advance and carry them with you so
you know if you know it's it's kind of
one discipline versus another right yeah
anyway so look I've always said like my
reasons for being vegan is ethical
ecological doing the right things that's
the right thing to do making positive
political difference in the world in the
way the ways that I can and accepting
the ways that I can't you know I've got
a million rants about this but no I mean
diet and weight loss are really not
reasons to become vegan and on the cover
of every single you know American
magazine on the cover of Cosmopolitan
magazine swimsuit magazine
you know these all immense Health
magazine they all feature images of
beautiful people in in you know a wordly
great health wearing bikinis or you know
muscly men in in shorts and whatever and
none of these people are vegan or one in
a hundred of them is vegan you know it's
it's very obvious that it's possible to
achieve those aesthetics now the flip
side of that is when you look at the
statistics for human health
heart attacks can't serve you know uh
health of your circulatory system
there's this statistic dr. Greger likes
to use that vegans who get no exercise
at all vegans with a desk job have the
same level of health in terms of their
heart and circulation as marathon
runners who eat meat you know so the
advantages we haven't those but that's
all invisible you're not gonna see that
at the beach you're not gonna see that
the runway nobody walks up sequence says
Wow your arteries are really unclog well
your cholesterol free diet is really uh
it really looks great you know you don't
see that and you know believe me I find
cholesterol terrifying you know in terms
of the effects on the brain even more
the effects in the the heart and the the
veins and what have you throughout your
body
cholesterol is a terrifying thing to
have in your diet and nobody should eat
any of it and guess what the only way to
have a cholesterol free diet is to be
vegan so yeah for some people that you
know that might be a compelling reason
to be vegan or at least plant-based
but the flip side of that is exactly try
with the psychology of satiation the
psychology of feeling full while you're
on a calorie deficit in order to lose
weight and you know the ways that work
include smoking cigarettes
we're just terrible where people find
nicotine makes them feel satiated the
drinking caffeine which is terrible for
you people drink caffeine and they feel
less appetite or some people just chew
gum or they chew chewing gum that has
nicotine use there's weight loss gum and
this kind of stuff but yeah
a calorie deficit is feeling like you
were Nazis sated right yeah right with
with those exceptions the truth of being
on a calorie deficit going to sleep
hungry waking up on great feeling cold
you did all that stuff while having a
full time job right or will be yeah yeah
yeah and finding a diet and workout
routine that fits into your your daily
life yeah but look and just bring you
back to being at the subway station and
not buying that doughnut of ethically
ecologically and politically I totally
feel motivated enough to never eat
another doughnut you know what I mean
that kind of spontaneous way because of
veganism what veganism is what it means
to me but I mean you have to decide are
you motivated enough to do that in order
to lose weight probably not that's
probably why you're over 300 pounds now
right so if you don't have the
motivation to do the right thing in
order to be slim healthy and attractive
the opposite sex
he doesn't we've established that with
TGO Sam that's a known fact maybe he can
try being motivated by some of these
other factors even if it's just as a
thought experiment maybe you can just
try living try living as if ethics
matters try living as if ecology matters
you know try living as if these things
matter even if you don't feel it matters
and maybe just as a thought experiment
that's gonna motivate you to get some of
the weight loss results that you can't
get by thinking about being slim being
healthy being more attractive the
opposite sex
alright a bonus Yin